# Basic JavaScript-rendered Hello World

## 📝 Your Notes
What I learnt today-
  1. javascript modules can have .mjs extension as well and infact thats the recommended extention
  2. unbundled files can be deployed as well , they have longer first time load but can be faster for subsequent visit,
    however this could be beneficial for small applications only
  3. strict type javascript code throws errors for previously silent errors
      1. like setting value to undefined
      2. not declaring variable with type
      3. performing operation on NAN
      4. strict type can enhance performance by making the variable types deterministi
  4. refreshed memory for creating element using document.createElement
  5. refreshed memory for adding attribute , adding class Names
  6. learnt script type can be module for loading a module type script and that its defer by default
  7. defer type will execute script only after html parsing is done
  8. script can be async type as well , for async type script is loaded in parallel , howevr can be executed before html parsing is complete
  9. module import can only be done for relative path full file name needs to be provided including extentiopn .js
  10. modules are strict mode by default
  11. modules are imported into the scope of scipt

Elaborate on your learnings here in `src/exercise/01.md`

## Background

It doesn't take long to learn how to make "Hello World" appear on the page with
HTML:

```html
<html>
  <body>
    <div>Hello World</div>
  </body>
</html>
```

The browser takes this HTML code and generates
[the DOM (the Document Object Model)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction)
out of it. The browser then exposes the DOM to JavaScript so you can interact
with it to add a layer of interactivity to your web-page.

```html
<html>
  <body>
    <div>Hello World</div>
    <script type="module">
      // your JavaScript here
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

Years ago, people were generating HTML on the server and then adding JavaScript
on top of that generated HTML for interactivity. However, as requirements for
that interactivity became more challenging, this approach produced applications
that were difficult to maintain and had performance issues.

So modern JavaScript frameworks were created to address some of the challenges
by programmatically creating the DOM rather than defining it in hand-written
HTML.

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/01.html)
- [Final](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/01.html)

It's important to have a basic understanding of how to generate and interact
with DOM nodes using JavaScript because it will help you understand how React
works under the hood a little better. So in this exercise we're actually not
going to use React at all. Instead we're going to use JavaScript to create a
`div` DOM node with the text "Hello World" and insert that DOM node into the
document.

## Extra Credit

### 1. 💯 generate the root node

[Production deploy](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/01.extra-1.html)

Rather than having the `root` node in the HTML, see if you can create that one
using JavaScript as well.

## 🦉 Feedback

Fill out
[the feedback form](https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=React%20Fundamentals%20%E2%9A%9B&e=01%3A%20Basic%20JavaScript-rendered%20Hello%20World&em=).
